README.md, before:

# binary_macros
Rust macros for decoding binary-to-text encodings in string literals to [u8] literals.

This library decodes string literals that may contain various binary-to-text encodings, such as Base64, to binary literals at compile-time.

Why is this useful? Let's say you want to include a binary blob inside your crate, a public key, for example. You can do that with `include_bytes!()` from the Rust `std`. However, if you want your data to be easily editable and copy-pasteable,
a raw binary blob is not going to make it. (Besides, public keys are often distributed as Base64.) On the other hand, if you include text with `include_str!()`, you'll have to decode it runtime.

The macros from this crate support expanding other macros inside them first, and then decoding the result so can easily do the job compile-time. To get started, include this in your Cargo.toml dependencies:

```
[dependencies]
binary_macros = "0.1"
```
Stick this to the start of your source code to enable the unstable plugins feature and enable binary_macros:
```
#![feature(plugin)]
#![plugin(binary_macros)]
```
...and then you are ready to decode!
```
let public_key = base64!(include_str!("id_rsa.pub"));
``` 

You might also want to pull data from environmental variables:

```
#![feature(plugin)]
#![plugin(binary_macros, dotenv_macros)]
...
let public_key = base64!(dotenv!("MYCRATE_PUBLIC_KEY"));
``` 

## Included macros:
Number 97 (ASCII 'a') included with different encodings for example:
```
base2!("01100001") // Binary. Uses numbers 0-1. Group of 8 digits = 1 byte.
base4!("1201") // Base4. Uses numbers 0-3. Group of 4 digits = 1 byte.
base8!("302=====") // Octal. Uses numbers 0-7. Group of 8 digits = 3 bytes, uses = as end padding.
base16!("61") // Hexadecimal. Uses numbers 0-7. Group of 2 digits = 1 byte.
base32!("C4======") // Base32. Uses numbers A-Z and 2-7. Group of 8 digits = 5 bytes, uses = as end padding.
base32hex!("ME======") // Base32 that uses extended hexadecimal: 0-9 and A-V. Group of 8 digits = 5 bytes, uses = as end padding.
base64!("YQ==") // Base64. Uses numbers A-Z, a-z, 0-9, + and /. Group of 4 digits = 3 bytes, uses = as end padding.
base64url!("_A==") // URL-compatible Base64. Uses numbers A-Z, a-z, 0-9, - and _. Group of 4 digits = 3 bytes, uses = as end padding.
}
```


Huge kudos to the [data-encoding](https://github.com/ia0/data-encoding) crate for providing a wide variety of encodings!

Commit message:

Added version number to README.

README.md, after:

# binary_macros
Rust macros for decoding binary-to-text encodings in string literals to [u8] literals.

This library decodes string literals that may contain various binary-to-text encodings, such as Base64, to binary literals at compile-time.

Version 0.1.*. Tested and working on `rustc 1.13.0-nightly (3c5a0fa45 2016-08-22)`. I'll release a stable 1.0.0 once the [Procedural macros 1.1](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/1681) land on stable Rust. Bug reports, pull requests etc. welcome!

Why is this useful? Let's say you want to include a binary blob inside your crate, a public key, for example. You can do that with `include_bytes!()` from the Rust `std`. However, if you want your data to be easily editable and copy-pasteable,
a raw binary blob is not going to make it. (Besides, public keys are often distributed as Base64.) On the other hand, if you include text with `include_str!()`, you'll have to decode it runtime.

The macros from this crate support expanding other macros inside them first, and then decoding the result so can easily do the job compile-time. To get started, include this in your Cargo.toml dependencies:

```
[dependencies]
binary_macros = "0.1"
```
Stick this to the start of your source code to enable the unstable plugins feature and enable binary_macros:
```
#![feature(plugin)]
#![plugin(binary_macros)]
```
...and then you are ready to decode!
```
let public_key = base64!(include_str!("id_rsa.pub"));
``` 

You might also want to pull data from environmental variables:

```
#![feature(plugin)]
#![plugin(binary_macros, dotenv_macros)]
...
let public_key = base64!(dotenv!("MYCRATE_PUBLIC_KEY"));
``` 

## Included macros:
Number 97 (ASCII 'a') included with different encodings for example:
```
base2!("01100001") // Binary. Uses numbers 0-1. Group of 8 digits = 1 byte.
base4!("1201") // Base4. Uses numbers 0-3. Group of 4 digits = 1 byte.
base8!("302=====") // Octal. Uses numbers 0-7. Group of 8 digits = 3 bytes, uses = as end padding.
base16!("61") // Hexadecimal. Uses numbers 0-7. Group of 2 digits = 1 byte.
base32!("C4======") // Base32. Uses numbers A-Z and 2-7. Group of 8 digits = 5 bytes, uses = as end padding.
base32hex!("ME======") // Base32 that uses extended hexadecimal: 0-9 and A-V. Group of 8 digits = 5 bytes, uses = as end padding.
base64!("YQ==") // Base64. Uses numbers A-Z, a-z, 0-9, + and /. Group of 4 digits = 3 bytes, uses = as end padding.
base64url!("_A==") // URL-compatible Base64. Uses numbers A-Z, a-z, 0-9, - and _. Group of 4 digits = 3 bytes, uses = as end padding.
}
```


Huge kudos to the [data-encoding](https://github.com/ia0/data-encoding) crate for providing a wide variety of encodings!
